# openCosmosChallenge
Considering a flat solar panel orbiting around a central body, this Python code models the power generated by the panel over time. 

This implementation uses Python to plot an orbit around the central body as defined by the user in terms of semi-major and semi-minor axes. The solar panel is animated to follow the plotted orbital trajectory, and to maintain it's zenith-pointing attitude (see [assumptions](#assumptions)). The power output of the solar panel over time is also plotted, making use of surface area, absorptivity, and efficiency. A marker is animated on this plot to help visualise the power output at a given point in the orbit.

- [1. Installation](#install)
- [2. Usage](#usage)
- [3. Simplifying Assumptions](#assumptions)

<a name="install">

# 1. Installation
Move to the directory that you would like this repository to live in, open a new terminal and run the following:
```
git clone https://github.com/rdehaggart1/openCosmosChallenge.git
```
<a name="usage">

# 2. Usage 
From within the local repository, open a terminal and run the following:
```
python3 main.py
```
This will open a <b>setup</b> window which will allow you to tune various parameters of the solar panel and it's orbit. Once you are happy with the selected parameters, click the <b>start</b> button at the bottom of this winddow to begin the simulation. 

A figure will then pop up which will have the orbit around the central body drawn on the left, and the power output of the solar panel drawn on the right. The plots will be animated to allow for better visualisation of how the state changes over time.

<a name="assumptions">

# 3. Simplifying Assumptions
- The solar panel has only one face covered by solar cells
- The side of the solar panel with solar cells is always zenith-pointing
- The mass of the solar panel is negligible compared to the mass of the central body
- The back side of the solar panel is perfectly insulated
- The solar panel efficiency is constant over time
- The solar panel has constant absorptivity for all wavelengths of light
- The gravitational influence of all bodies other than the central body is negligible
- The central body is assumed to be a perfectly homogeneous circle (i.e. the body can be assumed to have a centre of mass coincident with the centre of the body)
- The sun is distant enough for the ray lines to be considered parallel
- The sun is the only source of radiation incident on the solar panel
- The solar panel is orbiting with an inclination of 0 degrees (i.e. the orbital plane is coincident with the central body's equatorial plane)
